Station Inventory Warning: Please note that this inventory list is an overview of the stations on our website as of the date of modification, and may be subject to change without notice.

Station ID Number Warning: Station ID numbers are an internal numbering system, and are subject to change without notice.

DISCLAIMER: Please note that the 7-digits Climate ID Number (referencen: https://climate.weather.gc.ca/glossary_e.html#climate_ID ) is the official Climate ID for searches on the Climate Data Online website.  Station ID Number is only an internal number from the computer system, it has no meaning, for internal database use only, and subject to change without notice.


METADATA

Name:  
Official Climate Station Name

Climate ID:  
Official ID for the Climate Station, and it appears on the Climate Data Online webpage
The climate ID is a 7 digit number assigned by the Meteorological Service of Canada to a site where official weather observations are taken, and serves as a permanent, unique identifier.
The first digit assigned identifies the province where the second and third digits identify the climatological district within the province.
When observations are discontinued at a site, the number is not used for subsequent stations (which may, or may not, differ in name) unless it is judged that the records from the earlier and subsequent stations may be combined for most climatological purposes.

Station ID:  
Internal numbering with no meaning and for database use only.  Does not appear on the Climate Data Online webpage

WMO ID:
A 5-digit number permanently assigned to Canadian stations by the World Meteorological Organization to identify the station internationally. The WMO ID is an international identifier assigned by the Meteorological Service of Canada to standards of the World Meteorological Organization for stations that transmit observations in international meteorological formats in real time.

TC ID:
The TC ID is the identifier assigned by Transport Canada to identify meteorological reports from airport observing sites transmitted in real time in aviation formats.

Latitude:
Latitude co-ordinates for climate stations are generally for the instrument site; however prior to April 1, 1986 at principal stations (airports) the locations given were normally that of the official airport locations. The accuracy of these locations depended on the quality of the reference maps available at the time. The latitude of each site is given to the nearest second or to the nearest 0.003 of a degree. All locations in Canada are north of the equator.

Longitude:
Longitude co-ordinates for climate stations are generally for the instrument site; however prior to April 1, 1986 at principal stations (airports) the locations given were normally that of the official airport locations. The longitude of each site is given to the nearest second or to the nearest 0.003 of a degree. The accuracy of these locations depends on the quality of the reference maps available at the time. Negative values of longitude denote degrees west of the Greenwich Meridian. All locations in Canada have negative values of longitude.

Latitude (Decimal Degrees):  Latitude value expressed in decimal degrees.

Longitude (Decimal Degrees):  Longitude value expressed in decimal degrees.

Elevation (m):
The elevation in metres (m) refers to the elevation of the observing location above mean sea level. The elevation of each site is given to the nearest metre and is generally the height of ground on which the instruments are exposed. Prior to April 1, 1986, the elevation at principal stations located at airports was generally the established by the elevation of the aerodrome. For principal stations not located at airports the elevation was established by the elevation of the barometer cistern.

First Year:
The year observation began.

Last Year:
The year of latest observation.

HLY First Year:
The year hourly observation began.

HLY Last Year:
The year of latest hourly observation.

DLY First Year:
The year daily observation began.

DLY Last Year:
The year of latest daily observation.

MLY First Year:
The year monthly observation began.

MLY Last Year:
The year of latest monthly observation.
